[Samples]: Add Windows Widgets Authoring samples (#258)
microsoft/WindowsAppSDK-Samples: Samples/Widgets/README.md

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- cpp
- cppwinrt
products:
- windows
- windows-app-sdk
name: "Windows Widgets Samples"
urlFragment: Widgets
description: "Shows how to author Windows Widgets with WindowsAppSDK"
extendedZipContent:
- path: LICENSE
  target: LICENSE
---
# Windows Widgets samples

> These samples demonstrate how to author Windows Widgets with WindowsAppSDK.

Reviewer: fixed

    * For the unpackaged sample apps, make sure to also install the prerequisites for [deploying unpackaged apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/apps/windows-app-sdk/deploy-unpackaged-apps).

## Building and running any of the samples

* Open the solution file (`.sln`) from the subfolder of your preferred sample in Visual Studio.
* From Visual Studio, either **Start Without Debugging** (Ctrl+F5) or **Start Debugging** (F5).

## SingleWidget and MultpleWidgets sample

Inside this sample folder you will find 2 different projects:
- Sample project that demonstrates authoring of only 1 widget within the same app.
- Sample project that demonstrates authoring >=1 widgets within the same app.
  
To get familiar with the implementation steps and API details it's recommended to start with the single widget authoring sample.

Once the widgets ideology and implementation steps are understood, you may examine the MultipleWidgets sample to get an idea on how to create an application that will be able to serve multiple widgets at a time.

> Relevant documentation and full walkthrough of a similar sample may be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/develop/widgets/implement-widget-provider-win32).

Reviewer 2: here and others: remove en-us from all links
```suggestion
Relevant documentation and full walkthrough of a similar sample may be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/apps/develop/widgets/implement-widget-provider-win32).
```

Reviewer: suggestion commited

* Open the solution file (`.sln`) from the subfolder of your preferred sample in Visual Studio.
* From Visual Studio, either **Start Without Debugging** (Ctrl+F5) or **Start Debugging** (F5).

## WidgetProvider sample

> This project includes a sample of a 3rd party widget provider. At this point, it's only possible to author widgets in C++ and Widgetprovider application must be a packaged application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This project includes a sample of a 3rd party widget provider. At this point, it's only possible to author widgets in C++ and Widget provider application must be a packaged application.
```

## Converting sample from Console to Windows application

If the widget providing application doesn't have any UI - it's a good idea to convert the app to windows application so the console doesn't show to the end user.
These are the required steps to convert the sample to windows application:

> - Right click on the SampleWidgetProviderApp in Visual Studio and open Properties. Navigate to Linker -> System and change SubSystem from Console to Windows. It can also be done by adding `<SubSystem>Console</SubSystem>` to the `<Link>..</Link>` section of the .vcxproj.

Reviewer 2: this is saying "set it to Console", I think you meant to say Windows instead.

Author: ```suggestion
- Right click on the SampleWidgetProviderApp in Visual Studio and open Properties. Navigate to Linker -> System and change SubSystem from Console to Windows. It can also be done by adding `<SubSystem>Windows</SubSystem>` to the `<Link>..</Link>` section of the .vcxproj.
```

- Substitute `int main()` in `main.cpp` with `int WINAPI wWinMain(_In_ HINSTANCE /*hInstance*/, _In_opt_ HINSTANCE /*hPrevInstance*/, _In_ PWSTR pCmdLine, _In_ int /*nCmdShow*/)`.

## Debugging WidgetProvider

> After the solution have been built, you will need to deploy the `SampleWidgetProviderAppPackage`. In order to do that, right click on the `SampleWidgetProviderAppPackage` and click Deploy. Follow all the required prompts and finish deploying.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the solution has been built, you will need to deploy the `SampleWidgetProviderAppPackage`. In order to do that, right click on the `SampleWidgetProviderAppPackage` and click Deploy. 
```

> Once you've done that, you may navigate to the Widgets Dashboard (hower over/click the widgets icon in the left bottom corner of the taskbar or use the shortcut `WIN + W`) and pin your widget.
> In order to do that:
> - Open Widgets Dashboard.
> - Click `+` sign next to your user avatar.
> - Find your widget and click `+` sign next to it.
> - Observe it on the widgets board.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've done that, you may navigate to the Widgets Dashboard and pin your widget:
- Open Widgets Dashboard by hovering over or clicking the widgets icon in the left bottom corner of the taskbar, or by using the shortcut `WIN + W`.
- Click the `+` sign next to your user avatar.
- Find your widget and click the `+` sign next to it.
- Observe it on the widgets board.
```

After you have pinned your widgets, the Widget Platform will start your widget provider application in order to receive and send relevant information about the widget. 

> To debug the running widget you can either attach to a debugger to the running widget provider application or you can set the Visual Studio to automatically attach a debugger to the widget provider process once it's started.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To debug the running widget you can either attach a debugger to the running widget provider application or you can set up Visual Studio to automatically start debugging the widget provider process once it's started.

```

In order to attach to the running process:
- In Visual Studio click Debug -> Attach to process.
- Filter the processes and find your desired widget provider application.
- Attach the debugger.

In order to automatically attach the debugger to the process when it's initially started:
- In Visual Studio click Debug -> Other Debug Targets -> Debug Installed App Package.
- Filter the packages and find your desired widget provider package.
- Select it and check the box that says `Do not launch, but debug my code when it sarts`.
- Click Attach. 

## WidgetProvider app distribution

> The widget provider app can be distributed in 2 ways:
> - With the Developer Mode turned on the machine the packaged widget provider application can be sideloaded.
> - Without the Developer Mode turned on the machine the package can be distributed through the Microsoft Store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The widget provider app can be distributed in 2 ways:
- Sideloading - this requires Developer Mode to be turned on.
- Through the Microsoft Store.

For more information see [Distribute your packaged desktop app](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/desktop-to-uwp-distribute).
```
